# PEP 3333 - Python Web Server Gateway Interface v1.0.1

## Rationale and Goals

This PEP proposes a simple and universal interface between web servers and web applications or frameworks: the Python Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI).

Simplicity of implementation on _both_ the server and framework sides of the interface is absolutely critical to the utility of the WSGI interface and is therefore the principal criterion for any design decisions.

Note that the simplicity of the implementation for a framework aouthor is not the same as ease of use for a web app author. WSGI presents an absolutely "no frills" interface to the framework author, because bells and whistles like response objects and cookie handling just get in the way of existing frameworks' handling of these issues. Again, the goal of WSGI is to facilitate easy interconnect of existing servers and applications or frameworks,instead of creating a new web framework.

Note also that the goal of simplicity precludes WSGI from requiring anything that is not already available in deployed versions of Python. Therefore, new standard library modules are not proposed or required by this specification, and nothing in WSGI requires a Python version greater than 2.2.2. 

In addition to ease of implementation for existing and future frameworks and servers, it should also be easy to create request preprocessors, response postprocessors, and other WSGI-based "middleware" components that look like an application to their containing server, while acting as a server for their contained applications.

If middleware can be both simple and robust, and WSGI is widely available in servers and frameworks, it allows for the possibility of an entirely new kind of Python web application framework: one consisting of loosely coupled WSGI middleware components.
